CMSC 14200
Discussion 4

You may have done activities similar to "15 puzzles" in the past. A 15 puzzle
contains 15 numbered tiles in a 4x4 square arrangement, with one empty square
in addition to the tiles. The challenge is to slide the tiles around
the puzzle, making use of the empty square, to arrange them in order from 1 to
15. You can try an online 15 puzzle at https://15puzzle.netlify.app.

Today's activity is to use python's functional programming tools (that you
learned about in last week's lectures) in order to create an N puzzle (a puzzle of n items)
that can be played from your terminal using a TUI (text user interface).

We have provided for you a framework for your N puzzle. The interactive TUI part is 
already done; your task is to implement the methods of the SlidingPuzzle class to 
enable interactive play, using functional programming.

In the internal representation of a puzzle, we use 0 to represent the
empty square, and the numbers 1 through N for the numbered tiles. By
convention, the tiles are kept in sequence in row order: the first c items in the 
list (where c is the number of columns) are in the top row, the next c items are in 
the second row, and so on.

A user works to solve the puzzle by "sliding" numbered tiles into the empty 
square, affectively moving the empty square in the puzzle in different 
directions. The puzzle is solved when the numbers 1 through N are in numerical
order and the empty square is in the bottom right corner of the puzzle.

The methods you need to complete in the SlidingPuzzle class are as
follows.

__init__(rows: int, col: int)

    You will need to initialize the puzzle by determining N and creating the internal 	
    representation: a list containing the numbers 0 through N. The constructor takes as input
    the number of rows and number of columns for the puzzle. You will calculate N using that
    information.
    
    This internal representation of the puzzle should start in the "solved" position. (You'll
    see why in the description for scramble)

    Use a list comprehension to create this representation.

valid_moves()

    Return a list of directional functions (up, down, right, or left) that are possible moves
    for the current state of the puzzle.

    If down is a valid move, that means it is possible to slide the tile directly below the
    empty square in the puzzle up, affectively moving the empty square in the puzzle down.
    
    To complete this function, fill in the dictionary of lambda functions for each move which
    return True if the move is valid, and False if the move is not valid.

    Then, write a list comprehension to return the functions corresponding only to valid moves.
    (HINT: Functions are hashable, and can be the keys to a dictionary!)

up()

    "Slide" a tile up into the empty square in the puzzle by repositioning the numbers in the
    array accordingly.

    See if you can use list comprehensions to do this!

down()
right()
left()

    These are all like the up() method, except for the direction.

scramble(i: int)

    This method should make `i` random moves to scramble the
    puzzle. Note that if the puzzle is simply *shuffled* completely
    randomly, it might end up in an unsolvable state. By making random
    valid moves to scramble the puzzle, it is guaranteed that solving
    the puzzle is possible.

    The moves you randomly choose should be valid moves, so this is a great
    place to use valid_moves(). 
    
    Try doing this recursively! It can be written in as little as 3 lines.

solved() -> bool

    Return True if the puzzle is solved, False otherwise. The puzzle is
    solved when the puzzle is in numerical order, with the empty square in the very 
    last position.

